Okay, so this is our fourth and final session of Sari stories. And we're going to start
with Rosalind's Sari story, and then there'll be a little bit of a hiatus while I switch
everything around for Gary's Sari story. Okay, Rosalind.
Okay, well, I've just been looking through some old diaries to try and find the date of this and
I cannot sort of pin the date. So other yoginis might remember when it was, it was India tour.
Both of the stories, they're very, very short, were on India tours, it could have been my first
India tour actually, 89, 90. And we, Shri Mataji very kindly allowed us to go to Protestant, and we
stayed overnight there. I don't know if anyone remembers this, whether Danny was there. And I
think it was the year that Shri Mataji, the Italians had brought some pasta. And everybody was
a little bit fed up with the tour food and pasta came and everybody was very cheerful about that.
But anyway, I'd put my name down on the marriage list. I was very nervous about it. But they told
me, all I could go on was what yogis told me how things go. And they told me that you need this
certain amount of money if you're going to get married. So I duly took out a lot of money in
England and changed it at the airport into rupees. And I have this sort of large in my bag,
wandering around India, you know, thinking, you know, worrying about this money, you need this
money to pay for the marriage or you might have to pay for the marriage. Anyway, when we got to
practice that Shri Mataji had all of these beautiful, beautiful saris brought into, well,
they were outside on tables in the garden. So can you hear me Caroline, because some, some things
just come up on my screen. I can hear you fine. Okay. Just came up about Spanish on my screen. And
we were looking to see the saris, we were able to choose a sari and I saw one that I really liked.
It was a dark, almost like a midnight blue thing. It had silver stars and things on it. I really, I
love this sari. And I, you know, once I've got my eye on that one, I couldn't really forget about
it. But I kept thinking about this money and the marriage. And I thought, you know, I didn't know
what to do. It was, I was very new. I mean, that was, I was only been in Sahaja about 18 months.
And that was my first time in India. So I didn't really know how things worked. Anyway, I must have
decided not to go for the sari and to save the money in case I got married. Then I saw over the
next few days or the next puja that we had, I saw one of the other English girls had bought this
sari and was wiring it to the pojo. So you can imagine how I felt. And I didn't get the sari and I
didn't get a husband either. So it was a big lesson in, in being, you know, surrendered, but of
course, I didn't really know about surrender then. So, so all of the other stories on saris, people
have been able to show either a picture or the actual sari and I can't because I never got that
sari. So it was a bit sad. It's funny how you remember things like that, though, because it was
a real lesson to just live in the moment really and go for, you know, whatever was being put in
front of you. That's the thing to do. So that was that. And then there's only one other very short
story and again on an India tour. And it's not really about a sari but it's about Punjabi suit.
And again, I think he, I don't know whether it was that same tour, and Sramath Ji had taken us all
to the theatre. And all I had in mind was I wanted to have a Punjabi suit. I'd seen other girls in
them and, you know, I really liked them and thought they looked very comfortable. And I just
again, I was very attached, I couldn't get my mind off wanting a Punjabi suit. And we hadn't been
anywhere to buy anything until this one day. And we were near a town, I can't really remember where
it was. That's why I've been trying to look in my diaries for the date. And another yogini from
Germany said she'd come with me. And she came with me and I tried one on and I'm very tall and quite
broad shoulders. So not all of them fit me very well. This one did. And I bought it. I asked her
opinion and she said it's okay. And then I wore it that night, or one night for the theatre. And I
just happened to be, I didn't really mean it to happen, but I just happened to be right at the
side where Sramath Ji was walking out when we'd finished the play at the theatre. And she just
looked at me and very, very firmly, I mean really firmly said, children's clothes, she said directly
at me, and then turned away to the rest of the collective and said, oh, you can buy them in
such and such a place, you know, you can buy children's clothes. And it was quite a shock,
because she looked directly at me and said, very firmly, children's clothes. And I thought
afterwards, it took me a while to understand. But I thought afterwards that she was telling me, no,
that's not the right thing to wear. And now I know about things. It was actually quite a very young
Punjab, it wasn't really suitable for me. So that was, you know, so obviously, I was,
I should have had a sari on really. That's it, really, those are my two very short stories.
Well, they're both lovely. And, and just so
emblematic, I think is what I'm looking for, of these things that happened to us,
that we really recognise as lessons, especially, I think, in the early days,
when it's all when we're changing so much so quickly, and we and and these incidents happen,
and we know that they are specifically happening, so that we'll learn something from them.
Yes, exactly. That's exactly right. I thought that they did, I knew even then,
they were happening to teach me something, but it's a bit of a blur, you know, you're not quite
sure at the time, but of course, you know, you learn later. Very funny.
Thank you very much, Rosalind. I'm going to remove the pin from you. And Gary,
you switch your camera on, please, my dear.
So here I am.
Yeah, lovely. And now you're pinned also for the recording, which is continuing. So I've got these
images lined up. So just let me know when to put them up.
Okay. Well, I'll introduce myself for the people who don't know me. I'm Gary, originally from
Australia. And I got my realisation in 1981 in Australia. And I've been living in Austria now
for the last 40 years, married to Hamid Mirani, which you probably quite a few of them probably
know Hamid. My stories are varied. Initially, when we went on the first India tours,
Sharmataji was giving out saris to all of the women on the tour. And it was such a joy to know,
to wonder what colour you were going to get. There was always this red one or a blue one or a green
one. And they were the first saris we were ever given in 1981. I've got one sari here.
I don't know what that is there. Okay. And this one was I think from 1982. So it's a good 42 years
old, this sari. And it's still in very, very good condition. As you can see, it's a cotton sari. And
we were allowed to bow down to Sharmataji's feet. And then she gave us the saris personally. So it
really has still very nice vibrations, even though it's such an old sari, which I haven't worn for a
long time. But it's this pure cotton, really lovely sari. The main story that I'm going to say today
is about how I actually got my name Gauri. In 1988, as many of you know, there were nine nights
of the Devi. It was celebrated in Pune. And my husband was working in Pratastan. He went there
for at least five years, consecutive years. And in 1988, we decided we would go with him.
A nine month old baby and a three year old little girl, two little girls.
So we boarded the plane and we landed in Bombay. And Hamid, because he was doing work in the garden
while we were there, he'd taken a lot of seeds and earth and different things from Austria that
probably were not really allowed to be imported into India. But he just bought them all and
surrendered. But when we got to the airport, the lady said, look, I'm sorry, but you'll have to go
into quarantine. It was two o'clock in the morning. And here's the two little kids there. And I
thought, how are we going to do this? So, bhandans, bhandans. And suddenly a lady came out of the blue
with a white sari on and she looked at the little girls and she said, don't worry. She said, you can
just go straight through. Don't tell anybody. Don't look anything. Just go straight through.
And she said to Hamid, now you go and plant your garden. Don't worry. So we got into Bombay. And
then next day we went to Pune and we were staying with a family there. And Hamid was working at the
garden every day and going each day to the pujas. And he was able to do the whole nine pujas.
In the course of this time, I received a sari through Hamid. And Caroline, you can put up the
photo of Sumerji writing my name, if you wouldn't mind. Hello?
Yeah, just have one moment's patience with me.
Yeah, okay. Anyway, in the meantime, before she puts it up, Sumerji gave a sari to me. And
she said to Hamid, what's your wife's name? And he said, Glenda. And she said, that's not a good
name. That means lady from the valley or lady from the glen. And she should be more from the
mountain. And gauri means white or snow or up in the mountains, Sripavati. And she said,
and Sri Shiva. So she gave me the name Gauri. And that was how I got my name. But not directly from
Sumerji, through Hamid actually. And this is the sari. I don't know whether I can…
Yes, just let me stop sharing the picture.
Yeah, you can actually put the other sari up. Maybe it's better than if I show it like this.
But this is my Gauri sari, I call it.
Yeah, I'll share a picture also.
There.
Yeah, that's it. And I mean, it's very old now. And I've worn it a few times. So it's not in
the best condition. But it's still a very precious sari naturally. And we were
at the puja actually. The puja was on the 16th of October, as far as I remember, in Pune. And
I was actually allowed to go up on the stage and do the puja. But at the time I was feeding my
child, the little one. And suddenly my name was called Hamid's wife. And so I had to kind of
quickly button my blowers up and walk all the way up to the stage. And Daya came up with me.
And she wasn't supposed to. But she came throttling up in her little sari, which was so cute
actually. She was only three. And she ended up actually doing the whole puja. She was so
enthralled by her because she was being so good that she was offering the bracelets and she was
offering the perfume. And it was a very, very powerful puja. You can imagine it's an Abaratri
puja. And it was really, really special. And afterwards, when we got back home,
Sharmataji invited us to Protestant. And so we went and we were in a private room with Sharmataji.
And she was saying to me, I don't know how to pay Hamid for all the work he's been doing
in Protestant in the garden. And she was looking right at me, you know. And somehow inside of my
head was, he always wanted a son. This was somehow in my head. And then Sharmataji looked at me very,
very knowingly, let's say. And I was sitting there and I was thinking, oh yes, okay.
And then when we got to Australia, because we went to Australia after India,
and then afterwards Sharmataji invited us back for Ganapati Pule.
And in Australia, I felt very tired. I wasn't feeling very well at all.
I was still breastfeeding my daughter, the middle daughter. And we got to Ganapati Pule and
I didn't feel well at all. And I thought, gosh, I hope I'm not pregnant again.
Anyway, I got back to Austria and I was. And later on, about a year after this,
I know I'm going a bit out of order here, but a year after this, a lady came into the room in
Pertelsdorf. And Sarah's up, so actually she might even be online, I don't know.
And she said, why isn't she going to India? And I said, oh, she's pregnant, Sharmataji.
And then Sharmataji looked at me, she said, but you were pregnant. And I said,
yes, but I didn't know Sharmataji. She said, oh yes, but I did.
And this was the time when I was pregnant in Ganapati Pule. So yeah.
This was the sari Sharmataji sat on in Pertelsdorf when she was talking about this.
And so that was a really nice moment.
Sharmataji gave me quite a few saris, not always personally. I got them mostly through Hamid.
But this one I got personally. And this was at Saraswade.
I think it was about 1997, around about this time. Hamid was leader of Austria for quite some time,
so this is why I received quite a lot of saris. And we had another
I'll just get this one.
I mean, when you look at them, you think, gosh, I got all these saris. And you don't
really remember exactly when the time was that you got them. But this sari I remember.
Sharmataji gave me this sari. It was in when Iran and Australia were holding Guru Puja.
And this was actually given to me for Iran. So that was this sari.
So I have other saris here. Maybe I can just put the screen on it.
I think you can see them there. There's about four or five saris that were given to me
at different times during Hamid's leadership. Sabina Akhil also has more or less the same
saris we were given them. We both got saris the same together. So yeah, what else?
I'm just going to put up the picture of your name in the frame as well.
Yeah, okay. That would be nice. I did the Sharmataji's handwriting. It was so special
when I received the sari with the name written. And my name written down Glenda, you know,
which was really quite amazing that Sharmataji wrote my name. And then underneath she writes
it in Hindi and then underneath that Gauri. I don't know whether you can see it that closely
there. I think that's the other one, Caroline. I had already previously put up.
There's one that's really. I had already put it up again.
And Edward was so kind to frame it for me. And I've kept it ever since. It's a very beautiful
thing to have. You can see the Hindi is at the bottom. The Hindi is at the bottom. Yeah.
Yeah. And it is a beautiful frame as well.
Yeah. So should I tell any other stories? Yes, please. As many as you have. I don't have that
many sari stories. I mean the saris. Well, I can tell you another story about my daughter,
actually. She put on a fashion show of all Indian clothing. And it was part of her getting into
university in Australia. And it was at La Donna Messa. It's called the Women's exhibition.
And I mean I had 16 girls parading with all different types of clothes down in my cellar
for quite a few months before this. But it was really powerful. Because each,
they started off with the muladhara and they had everything in red. So there was red punjabis,
red saris. And it was just a mixture. And then they danced to it and came out with these,
in a very good display. So they started off with the muladhara and then they went up to
Swatthastan, went up to all the colours of the chakras. And the last one was a wedding. They had
the Indian clothes on for the wedding as well. The sari, the wedding saris on. So it was a really
nice thing to do. And it just showed you how auspicious Indian clothing is. And it was very
successful actually. And she used it and got into university with this presentation of her work. So
it was actually really, really a lovely thing. Well what was she studying, Gary?
Oh she did film, communication in film and media. She got her bachelor in Australia with that.
Unfortunately she can't use it because she's in Czech Republic with two little boys at the moment.
So she's not really doing the job she worked for. But she'll get back to it probably.
Yeah. That's lovely. So I do have, no I mean that is a lovely story. I do have also this
picture of you and Christine which I don't know if you, that was because you talked about that.
Yeah. I don't know whether Christine's online but I can't see who's online but I think she might be.
Christine and I came to Sahaja Yoga around about the same time, about the same age. We're both
born in 1952. And somebody happened to walk past and see us both sitting there with our saris on
and took a photo. And I thought, it was just after Christine did her sari presentation as
well. So it was really nice to have it. It was at Sri Katikeya Puja recently.
Yes if you put it up I can tell another story about that sari.
Yeah. Sri Katikeya Puja. And we were both sitting there. The sari I have on was actually one of
these saris where Shri Mataji bought them all. And I think they were from China. And she said,
we all should take one. And I don't, I think they were all free. I don't believe we paid for them
even. And I chose this one. And the altar happened to be exactly the same colour of my sari. It was
golden and this sort of petrol coloured. And yeah, it was really, it's a very comfortable sari to
wear. But it's also one that Shri Mataji bought and gave to the collective to choose. You know.
Yeah. Wow.
Yeah. What else can I talk about?
I mean quite often we were ironing, I was ironing Shri Mataji's saris for the program. I remember
ironing her white saris. That was extremely powerful. You know, you just went into meditation
ironing her sari. Of course you were a little bit nervous that you didn't do it properly.
But I remember ironing her sari for the program and
this beautiful white sari. Yeah. That was amazing.
We were very, very blessed to be so often with Shri Mataji. And we can't thank her enough for
allowing us this time with her. We were so close. And in the early days in India, we were able to
offer garlands around her neck every day. And we were able to go to her feet every day. And
sometimes we were at Shri Mataji's feet for, you know, ten minutes while she worked on us. And
we felt amazing afterwards. I remember one time when Shri Mataji gave us all the bindi
and worked on our aagirs. It was really powerful. These first India tours were very, very personal
and we were very often called by our name. And Shri Mataji gave us little Ganesha's in our hands
and we received so much in those first India tours. And that's why these saris also receiving
them personally from Shri Mataji is such an amazing blessing. And yeah, we treasure them.
And I've looked after them all these years. I don't wear them. You know, it's something that
I've kept. So yeah, especially my Gauri sari. That is, was a very special time.
It wasn't easy with two little girls there in India for three weeks while Hamid was enjoying
every day the Navarachupujas in Pratistan. And I was there with the two girls in this private home.
But the blessings came and the time we had in Pratistan with Shri Mataji at that time
was very special. And it was just my family, just our family with the two little kids. And
Shri Mataji was talking about the little kids. Oh, oh, look, see the lovely kids. And they were
really nice and they were well behaved. But it was such a special close time with Shri Mataji. And
with Shri Mataji. And we will never forget it. And also in Ganapati Pula,
we were invited to Ganapati Pula that year. And that was a very special year too, 1988.
Yeah. I mean, I can go on, I suppose, with different stories, but it's not sari stories then.
Maybe somebody else likes to tell a story. Is there somebody online that wants to tell a story
spontaneously? Gary, Gary, when you talked about Hamid in the garden, I remember all the Austrians.
He he wanted all these trees from Austria. Yeah. So we all were going to India tour. And we,
every one of us had a little tree, like it was smaller than us. And we brought them on the
planes with us. And in those days, I don't know how we just need to get through, didn't you? Yeah.
We, we, we had trees and the plane was filled with these trees.
We're bringing from mother's garden. We had all of these seeds, you know,
boxes and boxes of seeds he brought in, you know, we got them out of our, like, we checked them all
in, you know, and it actually would have been really illegal to bring them all in, you know,
there's seeds from all over the world. I think Hamid was asking for people to donate things over
all around the world or all over Europe. And he gathered them all, you know, and so it wasn't,
it wasn't normal to, to come in with all these seeds. And I remember this, I remember so clearly
this lady in the white sari coming up as like a savior, you know, it's like, it was like
Sumatranji was in this woman, you know, she just came up and she said, oh, just go through,
you plant a nice garden. But the way she said it was just so beautiful, you know, she just sort of,
she knew, you know, that it was something special. And yeah, it was so, so nice.
And it's such a beautiful garden. It was, it was so, it was like a paradise garden,
like the Garden of Eden. And then, and then they raised it, I believe. Then it was at one point,
completely bulldozed by one of the sisters. Yeah, it's not there anymore.
Oh, yeah, really? Yeah, yeah. I mean, Hamid went there every, every year for two months,
two months holiday. He had two months holiday after his work and every year for two months.
He was working in Protestant. In fact, he was working there when I, when my second child was born.
How many years did he do that for, Gary? Four or five years, you know, bro, yeah, consecutive years.
You had to because he had to watch it, you know, make sure it was going to grow properly and then
new plants were planted and it was a lot of work. Yeah, a lot of work. So Betty wants to,
Betty from the US wants to know if you had a son after you were thinking about wanting a son?
No, we didn't have a son. We had a, we had a third daughter who lives in America, actually. Yeah,
no, we didn't get our son. No. Each child was a son for Hamid
and they're all daughters. Yeah, but they've got sons. Well, Daya's got two sons. Yeah.
So I went on India tour pregnant. I was five months pregnant and I went on my last India tour
with my first child. Yes, I know, I didn't know, but then when, when Shimadaji, a year later,
when Shudeva was already one, Shimadaji looked at me and it was just so amazing, you know, she said,
well, I knew you were pregnant. I was just sitting there. I thought, oh my gosh, you know, of course
you knew. Yeah, I got into a little bit of trouble when I came back because that was the year that was
1991, 1992. It was the year when everybody got hepatitis. Oh yeah, including me.
Pregnant. Oh yeah, but I had no symptoms. Unlike other people, I only found out because I was
getting the regular pregnancy blood tests and they said, oh, do you know you've got hepatitis B?
Wow. My gynecologist wasn't very impressed. I have to say.
No, I came back from Australia, from India, you know, and went to the gynecologist. I was already
two and a half months pregnant, you know, I was shocked actually. I just had no idea, you know,
at the time. And yeah, that was the gift for Protestant. She's the gift.
Okay, well, I'm going to stop the recording now.